# cyberwitch

When we first got together as a group of friends, our common passion was video games. It was only natural that we venture to make a game as our 401 project. Sasha was already on a team of artists working on a platformer project, and, through many discussions in the programming team, the game evolved into a puzzle-platformer with challenging levels. The end goal is to create a logically engaging and emotionally compelling product that anyone who plays games can enjoy.  

The untitled project (working repository name is “cyberwitch”) is a side-scrolling, singleplayer game with platforming and puzzle mechanics. We have drawn inspiration from other puzzle games, like Trine, Little Big Planet, and Braid, for our level design thus far. Using 3D assets created by the art production team in the Animation department, we will be working with C++ and Blueprints in Unreal Engine 4, a free software that is available to each student. We will also be using a Github repository for version control. Most importantly, the power of friendship will propel our group to success. Eventually, the total runtime of the game would three hours or greater; for the end of this semester, however, we have lowered the scope to be a reasonable goal. We have projected to finish between 30 - 60 minutes of gameplay, consisting of a tutorial level and a first “world,” made up of approximately 15 smaller puzzle-based levels, for the 401 deliverables. 

## justification
	
As gamers ourselves, this is a project that we are very passionate about. We will be applying what we have learned in classes like Algorithms, Data Structures, Game Design, Interaction Design, Computer Graphics, Programming Languages, and Advanced Interactive (offered by the Animation Department) to the programming done on this project. Some programming challenges that face us as a group include but are not limited to: a working and intelligent enemy AI system, switching between playable characters, a character following system, incorporating different styles of movement and combat, and environment interaction. We believe that these game features, which will be playtested throughout the semester, will prove to be difficult but rewarding to implement. 

We are aware about the ambitious nature of the project. Considering that we are working with a whole team of people in a different department, there will probably be some teamwork obstacles that we will all need to face. This is a great representation of industry experience, though; we will we working with people that have different mindsets and talents, which is very informative of the kind of interactions we might face in our future careers. With a visually and technically appealing demo, the entire team is excited by the prospect of taking this game past 401 and pitching it to industry professionals at conventions.
